The Joe Rogan experience.
I'm super excited to talk to you about several subjects, but this one,
thank you very much for this first edition copy of your area.
51 and uncensored history of America's top secret military base book.
I'm super excited about this. I heard through the grapevine, you are a fan,
I'm a freak when it comes to this stuff, what do you think is going on up there?
I mean, same thing.
That's going on all over the place when it comes to military secrets,
which is stuff that you want to know about very few people know about.
And every now and then a journalist gets a hint, right?
Yeah. Do you think there's any alien stuff up?
I write in the book all about that last 12 pages you want me to
read? Um.
So area 51 was this secret test base where the CIA
was running, uh, spy plane programs. Right?
So interestingly, my new book is about ground branch guys on the ground.
That's about air branch, what we were doing in the air.
And it was this idea that we should spy on the enemy. Okay.
And, but if you go back in time,
why area 51 really started you learn that it was a
base hidden inside of a base nuclear weapons.
And it was all about beating Stalin at his black
propaganda campaign.
I right in the book to hoax Americans in a war of the
worlds type scenario,
whereby little men who looked like aliens would get out of an
aircraft and the government would go crazy about it.
And then Stalin would say, look,
we have not only do we have technology better than you,
but we have a better propaganda department than you.
Route that Joe, you.
Got to read the whole book. I mean, this is like a, this.
Is a tough opening. You got me, but it's a good spot. Right? It's a good spot.
So Stalin just hired short people.
All right. I'm going to make you save that. I'm gonna make you earn. Yeah.
I mean, you want me to talk about that right now? Right off the bat.
I'm sweating.
We're going to get to surprise, kill vanish as well. But I want to just, yeah.
Why does that make sense?
Oh my God. It's such an incendiary topic. I mean, people,
people want to believe they're aliens. Right? Right. Okay. I mean,
I've spent five books dealing with the mythology of area 51,
which is phenomenal in its own way because it speaks so much to power,
to morality, to information, to, you know,
people's desire to know what's going on and,
and the government's desire to keep things hidden.
So this topic is always coming up because a lot of people want to believe that
there were aliens in that craft. And my source,
who I write about in the book, uh,
told otherwise that they were genetically, you know, that they.
Be right there. Because when you say that craft,
what you mean is the supposed UFO records have crashed in Roswell,
New Mexico in 1947. That's what you mean, right? Yes.
But that was never supposedly taken to area 51.
It was supposed to be taken to Wright Patterson, air force base.
The legend has it, that Truman flew there to meet them and right.
That's one legend. So.
In my book,
I interview a man who worked for the atomic energy commission who tells a
different story,
tells the story of receiving that craft
at area 51 in 1951,
which is why the base is called area 51.
And that inside the craft were humans who had been
altered surgically altered to look like aliens in a plan for
Stalin to sort of twist Truman's
arm. Because at that time
we had the atomic bomb when Roswell happened,
we had the atomic bomb and the Soviets did not.
When you say humans that were surgically altered to look like aliens,
do you mean, so this is 1951.
So you're talking about four years after the supposed crash. Yes. So what,
what.
Was left? They kept the bodies.
In what? Formaldehyde.
Yes. And also because the idea was, and remember, or I can't say remember,
cause you haven't read the book yet. Right.
And I wrote this book eight years ago. Um,
but it did really impact a lot of my, a lot of my thinking and working on,
on, you know, government secrecy projects,
because it makes you really consider what
a hoax means and what it means to a population of people and
how the government begins to work with disinformation versus cover stories and
all of that. But going back to answer your question,
that is what I was told by the source that.
But how reliable is this source?
This is a very incendiary idea to rely upon
one individual's recollection.
Yeah.
Which is why the book went through the roof in terms of people being upset about
it. I mean, oh my God, I interviewed 79 CIA guys,
air force guys, spy pilots, engineers. I mean.
They,
conspiracy theorists were mad at me because they said this woman has bananas.
They were aliens.
Even if they weren't aliens. Right.
There's also there's accounts that it was some sort of a test
vehicle and that they were actually just dummies inside their crash test dummies
that they used. There's been a bunch of different versions of it.
But the most compelling version of the area,
51 alien myth to me is Bob Lasar. Did you get into that? Yeah.
He plays.
A huge role in area 51. I mean, before Bob went public,
no one even knew about area 51 people.
New people. It was, it was common folk lore,
but there was no definitive proof that there was something going on over there
other than some weird VHS footage of things flying around in the
desert that seemed to be behaving in a way that modern aircraft are not
totally capable of at least modern piloted aircraft are not totally capable. I.
Mean, which brings me to another book I wrote called the Pentagon's brain,
which, you know, sort of off this idea, it was like, wait a minute.
What kind of technology is the government capable of?
And we have a whole department for that reason called DARPA,
which looks at weapons systems 25 years out.
So the idea that you and I don't know what the military is
capable of in the air underwater,
wherever it may be is because we're not thinking 25 years
out and they are, and they're developing weapon systems,
the great weapons systems of the future. That's what they call them.
Right? Like how they develop the stealth bomber,
like in that was all out in area 51 and groom Lank. And um,
what do you think Ababil is our store? Cause Bob was our story,
what's it really there's some fascinating aspects to it.
One of the most fascinating,
some of the things that he's said that people said was horseshit is told,
has been proven to be true. Like one of the things, the,
the biometric reader that measured the length of the bones in
your hand,
and that they are unique as unique as a fingerprint and people are like,
what are you talking about?
And then they actually found out that this was something they really did have,
and they have photos of this thing.
Now this is something that he talked about and they claimed it was science
fiction. I.
Mean,
it's fascinating when someone touches upon a subject that the government does
not want known about for any reason.
And there is a campaign to discredit that person.
And there's no doubt that that happened to him. I mean, it was remarkable.
And I write about him in the book because if you follow the logic that my source
told me that these were, you know, modified human beings as part of a hoax.
And the reason that I trust the source is because Joe,
he told me that he also worked on the program.
So he had like a burden to unload. Right.
And so if you follow that logic through,
then the Bible is our story is that Bob one Bible is our set. I saw an alien,
it looked like this. It was small. It had big eyes it's yes,
those were the genetic genetically. I mean,
those were the surgically modified humans that the government was doing
experiments on.
I think Bob blazars exact quote was he walked by a window and he looked
in and he saw two agents that were, it looked,
they were looking down at something that was very small and looked humanoid,
but he didn't know if it was a dummy or anything.
And he wasn't even supposed to be looking in there. And it was a brief,
like one second look that he has bounced around in his
head back and forth.
Has it ever occurred to you that maybe the guy who gave you that information did
work there, but is also feeding you horseshit?
Well.
The source was a major player in the Manhattan project.
He went on and worked in the atomic energy commission. I mean,
there's a wing of a museum named after him. Um,
his accolades, his awards were so extraordinary. It would be,
I've never said his name. Although, you know, I will say this well.
You're giving it away. Like you're giving away.
A lot of the stuff here recently.
Died. And he did give me permission to tell his full story after he died.
And I'm circling around that, circling around that.
But he was absolutely, uh, you know,
with a queue clearance.
That's what you have when you have access to nuclear secrets.
So if someone has a Q clearance for decades and they're
full of garbage, you really have to ask my God,
should this guy have a queue clearance? I mean,
that's reverse engineering his credibility,
but I think you should read the whole book because you know,
it's shocking what he says, but it does make sense.
If you can get through 400 pages of, you know,
the CIS idea about information disinformation,
why we need to cover things up. Why that's, why.
I'm asking. If you think that he's, he might've been lying to you.
And he's feeding you information. No, I don't believe, I don't believe. So. You.
Think that the Stalin that the Russian government definitely did surgically
alter people to make them look like aliens? I believe,
I believe what he told me. Did you see photos? No, I.
Did not see photos, but here's the rub ready?
When I was writing another book called phenomena,
which dealt with the CIA and the Pentagon's use of psychics. Okay.
Um, over decades, I mean, this goes back.
Everything I write about pretty much goes back to post-World war.
When we remote viewing stuff. Yes. Yes.
And it's all about government.
Us government takes pole position after world war II.
And we now need to always be ahead of the curve. We must lead.
We can never get beaten by the Russians now it's China. Okay.
So the psychic program had a lot of people who really believe in
aliens or, you know, other Intel intelligence from other worlds.
And when I was writing the phenomena book,
I learned a whole bunch of new information about how upset they were with my
story because they believed and they all knew the source, by the way,
they knew the source and they believed that he was fed misinformation.
So these are two sides of the coin, which are super interesting.
I think if you can look at them with your own biased
turned off and not have a desired outcome,
I want to believe this. I don't want to believe this. You know? Um, speaking of,
I want to believe, you know,
I was working on a project with Chris Carter who is the X-Files creator
and one person I took the source, um, that I wanted to meet.
The source was Chris Carter. And I,
we went out there together and sat with him and met him.
And it was well because the source had never even heard of the X-Files,
but it was like, oh, I know they talked about baseball, you know?
Um, see I don't have.
A desired outcome. I mean, I would love it to fail and for real, okay.
But when someone starts talking about disinformation and propaganda
campaigns, but they want you to believe them. Right.
But don't listen, I'm here telling you the truth. I'm here telling you.
I'm not saying I'm telling you the truth at all. That's.
Why I was Joe. Let's wait for an hour three.
Because it's too explosive.
People have such a horse in the race already. They with aliens,
you think, well, I mean, maybe you are neutral. I don't know.
I know I'm neutral. Yeah. I.
I will listen. I absolutely want aliens to be real a hundred percent.
I'm not neutral, but I am neutral in my perceptions.
And when I look at things, I go, Hmm. I don't know about that.
You want to see a picture? Like, what are these, what do these guys look like?
I mean, what did they do to them? Did he describe what kind of surgical? I.
Stayed with a source. I mean, after the book published,
I would go and visit him.
We'd sit in a Chinese restaurant and eat and talk and I would try to get a
droplet of information out of him. Oh my God. He avoided. I mean,
look, here's another thing. When the book came out,
his wife of 65 years knew it was him. Okay.
And I went out to Las Vegas and sat there in a room with the
source and his wife. And she said, tell me this isn't true.
Tell me you made this all up to her husband. And he said,
it's the truth. I mean, that's a triangular version of getting at the truth.
But again, to reiterate,
I believe he believes what he told me was the truth.
That was the truth he was told.
I think there's certain agents that think it's fun to with reporters and
journalists and make things up. I really do. And I think,
especially when they're talking about secret information that they were sworn
to protect,
and then all of a sudden they want to talk to someone that they don't even know
on the sneak tip. Let's meet at a diner. I'm going to tell you everything,
how we met. Well, I mean, yeah. I mean, however you met.
Yeah. Well,
we met because I was interviewing nuclear weapons,
engineers who were setting off nuclear bombs in area 51, mushroom.
I mean in the Nevada test site area, 12 area, 23.
And they all said to me,
you've got to talk to the top engineer of all this weaponry.
And they gave me his name.
And we talked for days and hours about nuclear weapons.
And then in one conversation,
he began to cry and told me this story, that I was like.
What was crying? He.
Was crying because he participated in our version of the
human experiments because what the Russians do,
we do look, I've written five books about this altered.
People to make them look like alien.
I am,
we had a small program in 1951 where we wanted to see how the
Russians did what they did, how they made human beings look like this.
Well, they do take prisoners or something like what? Who are they? He.
Said they were handicapped children. Oh Jesus.
And he told me that he participated in this. So again, I mean,
unless you have someone that lost their mind at age 90 and was willing to tell
their wife of 65 years, I lost my mind.
So he's saying that he participated in something that
altered handicapped children. When you say handicapped,
you mean like down syndrome or something like that.
And they made them look like aliens and then killed them.
Like, what did, how did they, what did they do with this is where we get.
Into drops of information coming out.
But what I can say is he had a grandchild that was born that way.
And, and the grandchild did not live long.
The grandchild died and it made him feel so guilty about what he had done,
that he felt compelled to con to confess if you will.
And I remember saying to him, why are you telling me this?
Why don't you tell a priest? And he said,
a priest would judge me and I can tell you won't.
Why wouldn't you judge them? I judge him. Well.
I guess that's why I'm a born journalist joke because I really try not to judge
people. I mean, my new book surprise, kill vanish. It's about assassins.
It's about people who work for the CIA who do what needs to be done on the
ground, uh, in the name of national security. I don't judge them.
This is why, you know, what's really at issue here is morality, right? Yeah.
I mean, can I tell you how I got the idea for this book?
Sure. But let me, before we go any further, so I'm not saying, yeah.
Was he saying that there have never been any encounters with
alien spacecraft?
He was totally neutral about aliens. He had nothing to do with aliens.
He could have cared less. He didn't watch the X-Files take on.
Bob are his take on Bob Lazaro was that he probably saw
something that the government had an extension of the program. I mean,
he didn't know that was speculative. We didn't talk about that. I mean,
you know, other than inference, he was very limited in his,
in the information that he would get out. But I mean,
I used 79 sources in that book that all went on the record in name.
And he was the one anonymous source because, but like I said,
you know, he told me after he died, that I could tell the whole story. I mean,
I might, I might come back. If you give me a break and back off of the subject,
I might come back and tell you and.
Your audience, his name's your book want to promote your book.
I know you want to promote your new book,
but I want to promote this book as well.
I mean, I'm teasing you, but it's, it's like,
it's an astonishing story.
And I think the best line of all is that people that read about that in the very
end of what we did, they go, I wish they were aliens.
So Stalin created some sort of a craft that you're going to read it.
That's what you're going to do the rest of the afternoon. Nope. I'm going.
To come back on your daughter fast and we're talking.
I think we should probably get into this a little bit. Okay.
Come on with a question, because I'm used to asking the questions. Oh.
Right. As a journalist. Yeah.
Now Stalin and the Russians created something that mimicked
a UFL something that looked like it would be from another planet.
Is that what they did.
In those days, drones were,
there was a mothership and a drone was attached to it and it was jettisoned off.
Okay. So according in those days, well,
in 19 47, 48, well, they didn't, I mean,
that was drone technology then, right? So there's a mother,
a mother craft like an aircraft.
And then the drone is like a small aircraft under it and it gets
jettisoned off. And that was what the craft was. It was jettisoned off. So that,
so stolen actually, according to the source invaded our airspace,
which was the deep embarrassment to Truman.
So he invaded our airspace and then let this drone crash land on the
ground with these things that turned out to be human.
They looked like aliens,
but they turn out to be humans that were manipulated surgically. Yes.
As a way to, and remember, I mean, not remember, but where,
where this was was, you know,
very close to a nuclear weapon space to our white sands, military base. I mean,
this is like not a place you want the Russians to be able to get near, you know,
I mean, what was interesting is that area 51,
we then went on and mimicked all of those.
One of our early drones was a mimicry of that.
It was the [inaudible], there was an M 21, which was the mothership and a D 21
, which was the daughtership. So, oh.
I let them, was it wirelessly like we do now? No.
No. Then it was like,
there was a pilot in the mothership and they kind of let it go and it flew off.
I mean,
there's incredible stories of what the CIA was able to do out there at area 51
with their air branch, you know, um,
the technology they're always ahead of technology. That's what's remarkable.
Well, what Bob was our did film that was really shocking was the film,
the filming of these drones flying around and performing these
really crazy. You've seen those videos. Yeah. In the eighties.
It gets really crazy with what they're able to do and what they're. But I mean,
why I like looking at history is because you can see the progression, you know,
you see how science evolves, you know, bit by bit.
And then there's these great breakthroughs because what the government is always
looking for is called a revolution in military affairs. Right.
And that's certainly what drone technology did. Um, later on,
as drones became developed after the Vietnam war.
So in the 1980s, when Bob was our was filming all this stuff,
you think this was similar to the technology that we see publicly described
today in terms of like what drones are capable of. Sure. I mean,
that's all we had, something like that back then.
Oh, you know, when,
when the F1 17 was revealed during the first Gulf war,
that aircraft was being developed for 20,
25 years out at area 51,
actually at area 52 was where they had it set up, um,
to develop that stealth technology think about and what was amazing.
Talk about keeping secrets. Um,
they had something like 10,000 people working on that.
No one knew about it. That story was never broken by the press. Not by anyone.
It just suddenly appeared in the Gulf war and took out Saddam Hussein's,
you know, facilities. That's a revolution in military affairs.
What becomes interesting is then it becomes obsolete because now everybody knows
about it and everybody's going to mimic that.
And now you have to have a new weapons system and that's the military industrial
complex.
So was this drone aircraft that was released from the mothership?
Was this capable of autonomous flight or was it just,
they just threw it out there and let it crash.
Th uh, the ladder. Right. And remember that information, I am very limited to,
that's why it's 12 pages.
It's like the source gave me these little bits of information,
which I felt I felt was important to include because it speaks to the
big issue. Why is area 51 classified? I mean,
now it's not president Obama was the first president to actually say area 51,
publicly. Some people say because of my book, right. Meaning it was out,
the secret was out. But before that,
I went through 10,000 pages of documents from the national archives.
And every place you see the word area, 51 was actually redacted,
right? Why would you keep that? So secret? I mean,
all the guys that I was interviewing say, they could call it, you know,
groom lake. They could call it the test facility.
They could call it paradise ranch, but they couldn't say area 51.
Why? And the source said, well,
because we did this horrible program out there and the government doesn't want
anyone to know about that ever. I mean,
there are stories of like somebody asking bill Clinton, you know, about area 51,
him going white. I mean, human experiments, who wants to be part of that?
It's horrible. The human experiments.
Were,
were they limited to this mimicry of the Russian experiments where they were
trying to get people to look like aliens or where there's something else going.
On. Wow. My goodness. I mean,
you read now the declassified documents tell us how many different
human experiments were going on around nuclear weapons. Okay.
Horrible experiments where they were subjecting people to radiation,
because they wanted to know, they felt well,
it's more important to know what happens to people than to not know.
And so they would take groups of people that say had cancer or something and
test them. So there's no doubt that the government has experimented on humans.
It's just, is that something that is wise to make public? And, you know,
there's two sides of the coin on that. I mean, you, you,
when you reveal these kinds of things, when you write about them, I mean,
people get really upset and, you know,
vilify the government partially with good reason and partially it's like
bad for national security.
So I think that's the justification on the part of the fence department to keep
things.
Secret. That makes sense. Wow. That's a,
that's an interesting tank that I never thought of before,
but if I was stalling and I was trying to air quotes,
with the Americans, that's maybe way I would do it. Hey man,
you got a problem lands. They're coming. And there was,
if people it's hard for people that live in 2019,
especially if you're young to really imagine a world,
not only without the internet, but with two television channels, right.
And radio, which was where people got all their information from. I mean,
was there two channels? How many channels were there in 1947? Maybe three.
Maybe. I mean, it was radio in world war two. Right? Most people had radio.
Yeah. Mostly radio and newspapers.
And that's where people were getting their information.
And there was a mass hysteria where people were absolutely
terrified that we were going to be invaded, which is why when Orson Welles,
war of worlds, which when they released it, when they did it on the air,
they were very clear that this is going to be a reading of
Orson Wells war of worlds book or that a HD, well, excuse me,
war of war, right. Was HG Wells book and Orson Welles Reddit. Yes.
And when they were talking about this on the radio,
a lot of people miss that part. Right. And so as the radio went on,
as the broadcast went on and people were tuning in later in the day,
it erupted in mass hysteria. People were freaking out.
Hundreds of thousands of people really did think that it was.
And it was also something that was recreated in other countries.
I don't know if you know that they did that in other countries,
in different languages when they saw how cute it worked in America and well, so.
You see, you can see the logic. I mean,
at first it sounds absurd and it sounds ridiculous.
And that's why I was sweating because it's like.
I know Ryan, but.
When you think it through,
and I challenge you to read the whole book because you start piecing together,
these various ideas and disinformation becomes less vague and more specific and
you go, oh, that's how it works.
And you begin to see how people's perception and how they're easily manipulated
factors into national security. Just like you just described stolen,
knew about that. He was a master, he was the master of propaganda.
He invented it. I mean, he didn't invent it, but he invented it in a,
you know, on the political stage to be used to mess with another country's
perception of things. Think of what he did with brainwashing. Right. Okay.
So like in the fifties, and this is journalists, you know, said,
so there was a journalist who was putting out stories about brainwashing.
And there was this idea, which is well-taken that totalitarian governments,
brainwash people. And this became a big code word.
It was introduced into the American lexicon in 1950.
Well then we're in the Korean war. Our pilots start getting shot down.
They're put on TV by the communists saying terrible things about America,
the American pilots. And suddenly it was like, they've been brainwashed.
It was very convenient to have that story.
So these things work part and parcel,
and you've got all kinds of smart people behind the scenes, knowing this,
looking at it, examining it and using it to their advantage,
to stay aware in the pole position. That's the goal of the U S government.
So the propaganda that we did that sort of copied
Stalin's that were kind of playing catch up in that sense.
I mean, we're playing catch up then we're ahead. We're behind. It's always a,
it's a game it's. I mean, you're a competitor, you know, this, how.
Do you crazy thing to do to make a fake spaceship and just let it
slam into the ground with a bunch of people that you cut up to look like aliens.
Did he say specifically what kind of modifications they made to people that made
them look like you?
I got drips and read it in those 12, 12 pages.
I'm telling you that because you're asking me these questions that as if I
spent, I mean, look, I did spend literally hundreds of hours with a source.
We sat there and talked about everything and I would try to squeeze out just
like you're trying to squeeze out of me. And that's what I'm saying.
Read it because I literally tell you everything that there is.
I think what's most interesting about the source and why I might come back and
talk to you about it and tell you who he is on your show is because,
because of his backstory, right. Why he did what he did,
how he wound up in the Manhattan project.
Sounds like he was probably Jewish from Germany. No, no.
I'm trying to catch ya. Okay.